jira Id: DEX-1235
Title: Add correct istio config for sessions RPC connection. Remove port whitelist
Assignee: Avanish
Status: Completed
description: "
Continue work on https://jira.cloudera.com/browse/DEX-8621?focusedCommentId=5811690&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels%3Acomment-tabpanel#comment-5811690

There is a two way RPC connection between the Livy pod and Session driver pod on port 10000. When the traffic on this connection goes through Istio, Session creation fails with a TLS error.

As a workaround on both pods an exclude annotation was added traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundPorts to exclude that port's traffic from Istio

Livy pod: https://github.infra.cloudera.com/CDH/dex/commit/3741b1accae210cc53bddffc2c1fd40e46a308e1
Driver: https://github.infra.cloudera.com/CDH/dex/blob/5c2eb342d7d5cc0e531addd3f1edf01ffbabf46a/pkg/runtime/runners/spark/utils.go#L862
When includeInboundPorts/OutboundPorts was tried, we still ran into errors. Consulted Istio experts from other teams, they also were not sure.

To ensure that the traffic is secure, it should go through Istio. Task of this Jira is to remove the exclusion annotations and make a proper fix instead.
"

comment1:
Vinod Kumar Vavilapalli，as we discussed offline,  assigned this to you for the load balance of the session GA tasks. This is a medium task.
comment2:
Surya Balakrishnan please add more details in the JIRA description so that I can get this done through someone else. Thanks.
comment3:
Added more details, Please reach out if there are any other clarifications
comment4:
Also adding Connor Woodall to provide his inputs
comment5:
Avanish V Patil A Few Questions
Is the RPC connection secured (TLS) in both directions?
Did you remove this annotation from just one service and see if this issue occurs in either case?
Does this issue reproduce if we remove strict mtls istio configuration in the CDE?
Does this issue occur if we disable Kerberos in the CDE?

I don't think we need to increase the RPC handshake timeout. It's already set to the 90s, so that doesn't seem to be the issue.
comment6:
Currently, it is not secure and to make it secure is the aim of this Jira.
Yes, I have tried to remove the annotation for the Livy -> Sessions driver pod and keep it for the other way round, in this case both the driver and executor pods come up but the Session ends up in a failed state.
Currently we have the default istio mTLS configuration for these pods i.e., permissive and not strict. Only the dex-api pod has strict mTLS configuration.
Haven't tried that yet.

comment7:
Avanish V Patil Istio has STRICT peer authentication setup for all namespaces as CDE is now using Liftie Istio by default. Previously CDE Istio also had STRICT peer authentication.

comment8:
Yes Connor Woodall, the peerauthentication that is setup in the dex-app namespace is in STRICT mode, but then the peer authentication has a selector that matches label only for the dex-app-api pod.

Here is the description of the peer authentication being used in the dex-app namespaces.